%What 
Automatically describing different aspects of digital music content is nowadays crucial for organizing, searching and interrelating large volumes of diverse music collections. Melody is a fundamental dimension in most music traditions, and therefore, is an indispensable component in their description. However, being a socio-cultural product, melody necessitates culture-aware methodologies for its analysis. This thesis addresses computational analysis of melodies in Indian art music to automatically describe and characterize its melodic structures directly from audio music recordings. Melodic analysis in Indian art music is largely underexplored by the current computational methodologies in music information research. With its complex melodic structures and well-grounded theory this music tradition provides an opportunity to push the boundaries of the current knowledge in MIR. 

To this end, we start by building a sizable data corpora that is representative of the real-world music collections of Indian art music, with which we then develop our data-driven approaches. We provide a detailed documentation of this process, and also elaborate different test datasets that we use in our work. In Indian art music a lead artist in a performance is free to choose any arbitrary tonic frequency. Therefore, identifying the tonic pitch used in a recording is critical for any melodic analysis that is performed across artists and their recordings. We perform a comprehensive comparative evaluation of the existing tonic identification approaches to identify the most reliable method to be used in our work. We propose an approach for detecting nyas landmarks in melodies, which facilitate segmentation of stable melodic regions and melodic patterns. Subsequently, we focus on the main tasks addressed in this thesis, melodic pattern discovery and raga recognition. 

Repeating melodic pattens are fundamental units in melodies of IAM, and therefore, they become the central XXX utilized for analyzing melodies in this study. 

Pattern discovery aims to extract musically significant melodic patterns in large audio music collections of Indian art music. We follow an unsupervised methodology and employ time-series analysis tools to discover repeating melodic patterns in sizable audio music collections. Since an quantitative evolution of such an unsupervised system is a challenging task, we study melodic similarity, a crucial component of the discovery system in an supervised setup. We study in-depth the influence of different computational procedures and parameter settings often used in this task on the computation of melodic similarity in Indian art music. We obtain the best set of procedures and parameter settings, and show that this task is very sensitive to these choices. In addition, we propose a novel approach that improves melodic similarity computation by exploiting specific melodic characteristics in Indian art music. Pattern discovery often results in a large fraction of musically trivial patterns. In order to identify the patterns that are musically significant we propose a novel approach that employs complex network analysis tools and exploits the functional roles of different melodic patterns in IAM to perform the task. Using listening tests we show that the discovered melodic patterns are musically interesting and significant.

Raga is a core musical concepts in Indian art music used in composition, performance, music organization, and pedagogy. Automatically identifying raga in an audio recording is one of the most relevant topics in computational analysis of IAM. We propose two novel approaches for raga recognition that jointly model the tonal and the temporal aspects of melody. Our first approach is based on melodic patterns, the most prominent cues for raga recognition. For this, we utilize discovery melodic patterns and employ topic modeling technique. We show a comparable accuracy to the state of the art using this approach. Our second approach proposes a novel melody representation that captures both the tonal and the temporal melodic aspects relevant in characterizing ragas. With this approach we show unprecedented accuracies in raga recognition task on sizable datasets. 

The technologies resulting from this research work are a part of a number of applications developed within the CompMusic project for a XXX of Indian art music. These applications capitalize on the automated description to provide enriched listening experience and discovery of music. The data and tools developed in this work are relevant to a number of musicological work, specifically in studying pattern based characterization of ragas, compositions and artists. There can be a number of MIR tasks that can build upon the discovered melodic patterns such as music recommendation, music similarity, and music indexing?









------------------------------------

Large Collections of so many types of music
Organize, structure, relate, ->Pdegagogy, recommendation, Creation, 
Description Characterization

Melody basic dimension
description of melody is fundamental
Core MIR task

Melody is a cultural phenomenon
Description requires culture-aware approaches
IAM has copmlex melodic structures and well grounded theories, provide a ground for MIR formulation and our reason for selection of this music tradition.
Its melodic complexities are still not addressed completely by the current MIR
We want to address unexplore arena in IAM MIR and learn and push the current knowledge in MIR

THesis->data driven methodology->knowledge infused->discovery and characterization of melodic structures in IAM.
Identify relevant problems in IAM MIR
Efforts towards building curated representative Data corpora.
Different aspects of measuring the corpora, and different test datasets describe
Focus -> melodic pattern discovery and Raga recognition

Pre-processing is important, its important to extract meaningful base(features) with which to do higher level tasks.
Tonic->comparative evaluation
Nyas->segmentation

Melodic pattern->different aspects similarity, discovery, characterization
time series analysis methods , advancements in tseries and pitch processing enable this on large audio music collections
Comprehensive eval
Improvement using culture specificities
Unsupervised discovery methodology
Characterization using network analysis, relation between patterns and their associated metadata. Basically functional role exploitatoin.

Raga rec, most imp task in IAM. No many doing with patterns, we do it. Not many doing temporal witout quantization, we do it. State of the art beat!

Several applications built around our research! 

The central role of patterns in melodic structures of IAM can enable characterization of ragas, compositions, artist. We propose unsupervised methodology. Learn exhaustive similarity, improve similarity and the ncharacterize patterns. 



